# CS50-Project
YouTube Link: https://youtu.be/mrxFdTthqJc

Basic Functionality:
Data Storage: We decided to use Chrome Storage API to store all the data related to our app. The data is synced to the user's google account so that all his data is accessible across platforms.

Manifest: Chrome extensions require a manifest file (in our case 'manifest.json'). This file determines the popup html, the background logic, and permissions we need for our chrome extension. 

Front-End: We designed `popup.html`--the popup window of our extension--to be both concise and good looking. Everything was meant to be as pleasant to the user as possible. It can also be opened on the navigator by the extension. The style for each html page can be found in 'style.css'. We implemented classes in order to reduce redundancy. 
Notes: We added the option to press enter instead of clicking each the button. We also made sure the cursor goes back to the textbox 'Front flashcard' so that the user can add many flashcards as fast as possible without having to manually select input boxes.

Back-End Storage: We stored `number`, the number of blocked websites, `websites`, a JSONified array of blocked websites, `numberFlash`, the number of flashcards added, `front`, the front card of the flashcards added, `back`, the back card of the flashcards added, `last_block`, the last url blocked, `Unlocked`, last time unblocked, `time`, the access time (by default 15 seconds), `nbr`, the number of flashcards to unlock blocked websites (by default 10 if there are 10 flashcards, otherwise 'nbr' is the total number of flashcards), and `correct` to keep track of the correct answers of the users in case he stops doing flashcards after a while and wants to get back at it later.
Notes: For the flashcards, we tried to store our flashcards in a JSONified dictionary at first but it wasn't as practical. So, we stored the flashcards in two arrays such that the front and the back have the same index in their respective arrays. This enables easy access and easy randomization given the limitations of javascript's objects and the storage API.

Back-End (popup.html and popup.js): We then wrote several functions in `popup.js`, a file that handles the majority of the logic for the popup html. `Display` displays the number of websites blocked and the total number of flashcards (these values appear near the "Blocked Sites" button and the "Make flashcards" button respectively). If there are none saved, each value is initialized to zero. `LoadFlash` loads existant flashcards in one dropdown menu and `LoadWeb` loads existant websites in the other. `EmptyDropdown` empties either dropdown menu if needed (after adding or deleting an element for example). `AddWebsite` stores any typed url to blocked websites. `DelWeb` unblocks the website selected from the dropdown menu. `DelAllWeb` unblocks all websites. `AddFlash` stores an input flashcard. `DelFlash` deletes one flashcard from the dropdown menu and updates storage accordingly. `DelAllFlash` deletes all flashcards and updates storage accordingly. `SetTF` sets block time ('time') or/and number of flashcards needed to unblock websites ('nbr'). `Reinitialize` reinitializes the extension, setting all values to zero and emptying all storage.

Back-End Functions (flashcards.html and flashcards.js): The user completes his/her flashcards in 'flashcards.html'. The logic for 'flashcards.html' is in 'flashcards.js'. `ask` displays a random question for the user to answer. `check` checks the user's answer and then calls ask again. 'flashcards.js' also checks if the user has any flashcards, and if they dont then it redirects them to `error.html'. Each correct answer updates our storage accordingly and once 'nbr' is equal to 'correct', the user is redirected to the blocked page they tried to access.

Back-End (background.js): Chrome extensions, as declared in any extension's manifest.json, allow creators to implement a background file (in our case 'background.js). This file runs continuously. We designed this file to add google chrome listener for changes in a pages URL. Each change, as long as the user has not recently unblocked websites by doing flashcards, checks the updated URL against our stored list of blocked sites. If there is a match (determined by regular expressions to allow for greater functionality), then the user is redirected and 'background.js' calls for 'flashcards.html'.

'error.html' Functionality: `error.html` prompts the user to create some flashcards and includes a button that redirects users to 'popup.html'.

YouTube Link: https://youtu.be/mrxFdTthqJc